+++
date = "2016-10-29"
title = "Synology ssh with public key"
description = "How to configure Synology DS215J to use public key ssh."
categories = ["tech", "howto"]
tags = ["tech", "howto", "synology", "ssh", "rsync"]
+++

## Generating SSH keys

First of all generate SSH private and public keys on your local machine.

```bash
local> ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "yourmail@example.com"
```

## New user

It is good idea to create dedicated user for `rsync`.

```bash
synology> adduser rsync
```

## SSH with public key on Synology

### Directories

By default Synology sets home directory rights to `777`. `sshd` is very picky and its needs different home directory rights.


```bash
synology> chmod 755 /var/services/homes/rsync
```

Then you need to create the `authorized_keys` file on Synlogy. To this file remote users add their public keys. File permissions are crucial here and if they are wrong ssh will refuse you.

```bash
synology> su -s rsync
synology> cd
synology> pwd # make sure you are in /var/services/homes/rsync
synology> mkdir .ssh
synology> chmod 700 .ssh
synology> touch .ssh/authorized_keys
synology> chmod 600 .ssh/authorized_keys
```

Typically you want the `.ssh` directory permissions to be `700 (drwx------)`, home directory to be `755 (drwxr-xr-x)` and the public key (`.pub file`) to be `644 (-rw-r--r--)`. Your private key (`id_rsa`) should be `600 (-rw-------)`. `authorized_keys` should be `600 (-rw-------)`.

### Adding public key

Then add public key corresponding to a private key in one line in `authorized_keys`. You can use this command.

```bash
local> cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh user@hostname 'cat >> .ssh/authorized_keys'
```

### `sshd` configuration

Now, you need to modify `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` on Synlogy. Make sure it has the following line uncommented.

```text
# ...
PubkeyAuthentication yes
# ...
```

#### Restarting/appling settings

Now restart Synology or quicker just force the ssh deamon to reload its config.

```bash
synology> ps | grep sshd
synology> kill -HUP $PID
```

## Testing

You should now be able ssh to Synology as rsync with no password.

```bash
local> ssh rsync@synology
```

## How to change shell for user?

Sometimes you want to change default shell for particular client.

```bash
chsh -s /usr/local/bin/bash username
```

`/sbin/nologin` is specific type of shell - it disables login.

## References

* [Passwordless Ssh on Synology](http://karlcode.owtelse.com/blog/2015/06/27/passwordless-ssh-on-synology/)
